In which month of 1914 did the First World War begin?
What were people told to “keep burning” in the hit song of 1914?
What was the occupation of Edith Cavell, who was shot by the Germans on a spying charge?
Who became Prime Minister of Britain in 1916?
What did George V ban in his household to encourage others to do the same and help the war effort?
In the 1915 song where did you “Pack Up Your Troubles”?
How did Lord Kitchener die?
At which battle in 1916 was there said to be a million fatalities?
Which new weapon was introduced in battle in 1916?
What was the 1914—18 war known as until 1939?
What was the nationality of dancer Mata Hari, shot as a spy?
In which year did the United States enter the First World War?
Why were British soldiers called Tommies (short for Tommy Atkins)?
Which new British military force was established in 1918?
The German attack on which country caused Britain to enter the Second World War?
Which German word meaning “lightning war” entered the English language?
According to the World War ll poster, what did “Careless Talk” do?
What was the nickname of the anti-British broadcaster, William Joyce?
 According to Churchill, he had nothing to offer in 1940 but what?
Which great evacuation of 1940 was called Operation Dynamo?
What was the German air force called?
What were the Local Defence Volunteers renamed?
Which fruit’ was no longer imported after 1940?
Which US band-leader went missing over the Channel in 1944?
Where did the Bevin Boys work?
What was the popular name for pilotless aircraft, V-1s?
What was snoek?
Who commanded the Allied forces that invaded Europe on D-Day?
Which scantily clad female had a daily strip in the “Daily Mirror”?
In which French city did Germany surrender in World War II?
Which member of the British royal family was murdered by IRA in 1979?
Golda Mer was the Prime Minister of which country from 1970-1974?
 What was the meaning of Mahatma Gandhi’s message ‘Satyagraha’?
Whose presidency was known a ‘’ the businessman’s administration’’?
In the 1970s, because of the Watergate scandal, who became the first Us attorney general to serve prison time?
 In which year was Margaret Thatcher first elected Prime Minister in Britain?
Name the Queen’s art expert who, in 1978, was disclosed as being ‘the fourth man’ following the defection of Burgess and MacLean in 1951?
What nationality was Sir Edmund Hillary, who with Sherpa Tenzing, was the first to reach the summit of Everest in 1953?
In which country, in 1989 was opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi placed under house arrest for her outspoken attacks on the country military rulers?
 Who was president when the USA entered the first World War?
 In which decade was London’s ‘Crystal Palace’ destroyed by fire?
On the bombing of Pearl Harbour in 1941, who said: ’’Our enemies have performed a brilliant feat of deception, perfectly timed and executed whit great skill.’’?
Which two African politicians jointly won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993?
Which war ended in 1902 with the treaty of Vereeniging?
Who became President of the Fifth Republic on 8th January 1959?
What was the name of Queen Elisabeth Queen Moher when she married the Duke of York in 1923?
Who, in 1963 said: ‘’ Let us seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of hatred and bitterness’’?
18. In which state was Henry Ford born in 1863? It was also the state in which he died in 1947.
Which two countries signed a peace agreement at Camp David in 1978?
Name the Roman Gladiator and rebel who led a revolt against the Roman Empire between 73 and 71 BC. ?
Who was president of the USA throughout World War One?
The Treaty of Panmunjom ended which war?
The Virgin Islands of the United States, a territory in the West Indies, were bought by the USA in 1917 from which European country?
In 1940, who did Hitler make marshal of the Reich, or Reichmarshal, the first and only holder of that rank?
Who was the war commissar who led the Red Army to victory in the Russian civil war of 1918 to 1920?
Mary Todd was the wife of which US president?
at the end of the 18th century, where did a man named Toussaint-L’Ouverture lead a rebellion?
. Who was appointed the head of the Spanish Inquisition in 1483?
Who was the Roman emperor at the time of St. Paul’s execution, circa 64 AD?
What name is given to the period between Napoleon’s return to France after his escape from Elba, until his final defeat at Waterloo?
Which British monarch succeeded Queen Victoria?
Richard III died at which battle?
Who was the last Viceroy of India?
Which English monarch married Eleanor of Aquitaine?
Who was the last wife of Henry VIII?
Which country did Britain fight in the War of Jenkins’ Ear?
Which King George did the Prince Regent become?
At the Siege of Mafeking who led the British forces?
The House of Lancaster kings were all called what?
Under what name is Gregor Efimovich better known?
Apart from Mad George which kinder nickname did George HI have?
Which English queen married Prince George of Denmark?
Blucher commanded which country’s troops at the Battle of Waterloo?
Who had a horse called Bucephalus?
Queen Elizabeth II’s grandfather was which monarch?
Who was the Wisest Fool in Christendom?
Who was the first Prince of Wales?
Whose last words are reputed to be “My neck is very slender”?
Which Spanish king sent his unsuccessful Armada?
Which monarch was murdered in Berkeley Castle?
In what year did Edward VIII abdicate?
In Britain, who first held the office that today is known as Prime Minister?
In the 15th century which Duke was drowned in Malmsey wine?
Who ruled England between Henry I and Henry II?
How did Lord Kitchener die?
Who with royal connections had the middle name, Warfield?
In 1066 how many monarchs ruled England in the year?
Which ruler referred the English to a nation of shopkeepers?
Which monarch ordered the execution of Sir Walter Raleigh?
Which wife gave Henry VIII the male heir that he wanted?
Who became the UK’s foreign secretary following the 2016 EU Referendum?
In the ’70s who did Idi Amin oust from power in Uganda?
Which Emperor of Japan ruled for over 60 years in the 20th century?
What was the first name of Mrs. Gorbachev?
Who succeeded President Nasser in Egypt?
What was the name of Donald Trump running mate in 2016 presidential race?
Who was the world’s first woman Prime Minister?
In which decade did Juan Carlos I become King of Spain’?
Robert Mugabe was Prime Minister and president of which country?
Who became Ireland’s first woman president?

August
Home ﬁres
Nurse
Lloyd George
Alcohol
In your old kit bag
Lost at sea
Somme
Tank
The Great War
Dutch
1917
Sample name on recruitment form
RAF
Poland
Blitzkrieg
Costs Lives
Lord Haw Haw
Blood, toil, tears, and sweat
Dunkirk
Luftwaffe
Home Guard
Bananas
Glenn Miller
Coalmines
Doodle-bug or buzz bomb
Fish
Eisenhower
Jane
Reims
Lord Mountbatten
Israel
Non-violent message
Eisenhower
John Mitchell
1979
Sir Anthony Blunt
New Zealander
Burma (Myanmar)
Coolidge
1930’s
President F.D. Roosevelt
Nelson Mandela and Fredrick W de Klerk
The Boer War
Charles De Gaulle
Lady Elisabeth Bowes Lyon
Martin Luther King
Michigan
Egypt and Israel
Spartacus
Woodrow Wilson
Korean war
Denmark
Hermann Goering
Trotsky
Lincoln
Haiti
Tomas de Torquemada
Nero
Hundred Days
Edward VII
Bosworth Field
Lord Louis Mountbatten
Henry II
Catherine Parr
Spain
George IV
Robert Baden-Powell
Henry
Rasputin
Farmer George
Queen Anne
Prussia
Alexander the Great
George V
James I (James VI of Scotland)
Edward (later Edward II)
Anne Boleyn
Philip H
Edward II
1936
Robert Walpole
Clarence
Stephen
He drowned
Mrs. Wallis Simpson
Three
Napoleon Bonaparte
James I
Jane Seymour
World Leaders
Answers
Boris Johnson – now PM
Milton Obote
Hirohito
Raisa
Anwar Sadat
Mike Pence
Sirimavo Bandaranaike
1970’s
Zimbabwe
Mary Robinson


Of which country is Sofia the capital?
Which republic lies partly in Europe and partly in Asia?
Which stretch of water separates the Isle of Wights from mainland Britain?
Which country is nicknamed ‘The Cockpit of Europe’ because of the number of battles throughout history fought on its soil?
What is the capital of Libya?
Which European capital city is divided by canals into about 90 islands joined by about 400 bridges?
In which US state is the Harvard University?
In which ocean are the beautiful islands of Seychelles?
What is the highest active volcano in Europe?
Brisbane is the capital of which Australian state?
Which European country is divided into 26 cantons, six of which are designated ‘semi-cantons’ but function as full cantons?
A sabra is a native of which country?
Which South American country has land borders with ten other countries?
Which country has Montevideo as its capital city?
Name the only country through which both the Equator and the Tropic of Capricorn pass.
Riga is the capital city of which European country?
Apart from Dutch and French, what is the other official language of Belgium?
In which European country is the cathedral town of Teruel?
Which, by area, is the largest country in South America?
What’s the world’s biggest port?
Is Australia in the northern or the southern hemisphere?
What does each star on the flag of the United States stand for?
Which country does the holiday island of Ibiza belong to?
Which island would you Visit to kiss the Blarney Stone?
In which country would you be if you were Visiting the Taj Mahal?
The south of which continent is closest to the Falkland Islands?
In which mountain range would you find Mount Everest?
Which country is Luxembourg the capital of?
What colour is the spot in the middle of the Japanese flag?
The island of Sicily is at the toe of which country?
Which country is also known as the Netherlands?
In which country are Maoris the indigenous population?
In which Scandinavian country would you find fjords?
Which country’s languages include English, Zulu and Afrikaans?
Which country’s name could be part of a Christmas dinner?
In which city is the Vatican City?
Which Irish city is the second largest in the Republic of Ireland
In which country is the Yellow River, also known as Huang He?
Which country has four letters, the last one q?
Which country, capital Bangkok, used to be called Siam?
The Maritime Alps run along the border between which two countries?
Which river forms part of the boundary between Mexico and the United States?
New Caledonia is a dependent state of which country?
Port Moresby is the capital of which country?
Which mountain range in Africa has the same name as a town in South Wales?
At 2,277 feet, Mount Botrange is the highest point of which European country?
Which river flows through Glasgow?
What is the world’s second highest mountain after Everest, being situated in Asia?
Which sea in Northern Europe is bounded by several countries including Sweden, Finland, Poland and Germany?
A road tunnel runs from Pelerins in France to Entreves in Italy under which mountain?
Which present day state capital was the fist capital of the Confederate states during the American Civil War?
In area, Alaska, Texas and California are the three largest US states. Which is the fourth?
Kathmandu is the capital city of which country?
Which city is also known as ‘The Eternal City’?
Saxony was a former state of which country?
What is the longest river solely in England?
New Haven, New Britain and New London are all cities in which US state?
The Great Barrier Reef is off the coast of which Australian state?
What is the longest river flowing in India?
Baile Atha Cliath is the Gaelic name for which city?
Which ocean lies between Europe and America?
Which European country has an area called Flanders?
Which stretch of water separates Anglesey and Wales?
Which Rock is on the south coast of Spain?
Which river flows through Glasgow?
Which island to the south of India used to be called Ceylon?
Which sea separates Europe and Africa?
In which ocean is Fiji?
Which island, in the Arctic Ocean, is the largest in the world?
In which continent is the world’s longest river, the Nile?

Bulgaria
Turkey
The Solent
Belgium
Tripoli
Amsterdam
Massachusetts
Indian Ocean
Mount Etna
Queensland
Switzerland
Israel
Brazil
Uruguay
Brazil
Latvia
German
Spain
Brazil
Port of Shanghai
France and Italy
Rio Grande
France
Papua New Guinea
Aberdare
Belgium
Clyde
K2
The Baltic Sea
Mont Blanc
Montgomery
Montana
Nepal
Rome
Germany
Thames
Connecticut
Queensland
Ganges
Dublin
Southern
A state
Spain
Ireland
India
South America
Himalayas
Luxembourg
Red
Italy
Holland
New Zeeland
Norway
South Africa
Turkey
Rome
Cork
China
Iraq
Thailand
Atlantic
Belgium
Menai Strait
Gibraltar
Clyde
Sri Lanka
Mediterranean
Pacific
Greenland
Africa